Itn manual (#17)
orcfax/docs: docs/node-operation/itn-manual.md

---
id: ITN Manual
sidebar_position: 4
slug: /itn-manual
---

> # Incentivized Testnet manual

Reviewer: I wonder if it makes sense to call this an overview, and then have a separate manual section?

The manual section would just be a pointer to:

* manual ITN phase 1 <link>
* manual ITN phase 2 <link>
* manual ITN phase 2 <link>
* and so on...

And each of the manual pages would just have a title and then a message along the lines of "more info to be provided as we approach the ITN phase"?

Author: @ross-spencer 
To be clear, are you suggesting a structure like this:
```
├─Introduction
├─Orcfax solution
├─Fact token
├─FAQ
├─ITN
    │   ├─ Overview // the current page being reviewed
    │   ├─ Phase 1 manual // link out to from overview "phase #" sections?
    │   ├─ Phase 2 manual
    │   ├─ Phase 3 manual
    │   ├─ Phase 4 manual
├─Node operation
└─Developer manual
```

Reviewer: That layout looks good!

Reviewer: It looks like this page has been replaced with the overview now (and repeats much of the same information?), do we want to delete it?

Author: a mindless hang-over
deleted!

quorum of validators with approved data in order to then elect one to publish
their Fact Statement on-chain and be rewarded for it.

After this phase has been tested successfully, we will fully move to Mainnet.

## Joining the Incentivized Testnet

Commitment will key for those participating in the ITN. We expect participants
to engage earnestly with the process, dedicating the necessary time and energy.
This will include actively providing feedback that will be instrumental in
refining and strengthening the Mainnet protocol.

To join the ITN, participants must meet the following:

### Validator License

Initially, participants may only be required to hold a validator license on a
Mainnet wallet. However, as we progress through the more advanced phases of the
ITN, participants will also need one on Testnet.

Holding a validator license on Mainnet will allow participants to mint one on
Testnet.

```text
NB
ITN rewards cannot be earned without a valid license.
```

### 500,000 FACT deposit

Participants need to maintain this balance in their Mainnet wallet, which will
later need to be secured in a smart contract on the Testnet with tFACT
(Testnet FACT).

> ### Hardware and Infrastructure

Reviewer: This is a good approach (some info here and a separate technical requirements section). 

Given that though, I'd be tempted to keep this information less detailed, and say something like:

* min requirements (phase 1) are, single CPU, 2GB ram.
* recommended requirements (phase 2 onwards) are 32GB ram, 8vcpu, 600GB disk.

For more information see the technical manual.

Reviewer: NB. we could also add a footnote that says something like: specs are based on the minimal viable digital ocean servers operated by Orcfax?

During [Phase 1](#phase-1-data-collection-for-cexes) of the ITN, the hardware
requirements will be minimal to handle the tasks involved. Participants should
expect to meet the following:

* A broadband internet connection
* 2GB of RAM
* A single CPU

However, as we progress through the ITN, the complexity and demands will
increase. Because of this, Participants should consult our
[Hardware Requirements](technical-requirements#hardware) section while also
anticipating that these requirements will change as development, and ITN phases,
progress.

### Software requirements

Starting with [Phase 2](#phase-2-incorporating-dex-data), participants will be
expected to operate more taxing software (eg a Cardano node, Ogmios, etc.).

Participants should consult our
[Software Requirements](technical-requirements#software) section while also
anticipating that these requirements will change as development, and ITN phases,
progress.

### Knowledge requirements

> Participants must possess the skills to operate a Linux server and install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Participants must be able to run a Linux server and install
```

> various software packages, including those provided by Orcfax. Additionally,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
various software packages, including those provided by Orcfax.
```

> participants should be capable of updating both the operating system and any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Participants should be capable of updating both the operating system and any
```

installed software packages to maintain security and functionality.

While it is not a requirement at the outset, having an understanding of the

> Cardano node and its underlying protocols is highly recommended to facilitate a

Reviewer: i wonder if this is more about an understanding of operating a cardano node?

we will be doing our utmost to wrap all this functionality and making the validators as appliance like as possible. (this is for our own sakes not just the ITN participants).

[calc-1]: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1aH4Zwtn8KUTtrdzBBZFK1_Kulb7_a4uJGjzLhmPTLFc/edit?source=post_page-----9bc1506da743--------------------------------&gid=1978771855#gid=1978771855

### Maintenance periods

During announced maintenance periods, such as when Orcfax transitions to a new
ITN phase or addresses specific issues, no rewards will be distributed. Excess
rewards not distributed for a given month due to these situations will be moved
back to the validator allocation.

If validators are unable to earn rewards due to unscheduled maintenance or
unexpected issues, they will receive equal rewards for those days.

```text
Example
If on a given day there are 60 registered ITN participants, and the network
experiences unscheduled maintenance or unexpected issues, the available rewards
for that day will be equally divided among participants.
```

### Reward claiming process

As participants accumulate rewards, they will be able to track them on our
Validator Dashboard, and will be able to claim their accrued rewards at any
given time.

This approach prevents scheduled monthly releases that might affect price action
and cause more volatility.

To claim rewards:

> 1. Send small amount of ADA to a given address (covering the minimum UTXO and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Send a small amount of ADA to a given address (covering the minimum UTXO and
```

transaction fees)
1. Shortly after, participants will receive their $FACT rewards.

This process can be repeated as often as a validator wishes to claim their
rewards.

#### Vesting method

We are investigating whether the addition of a vesting method to the claiming
process will be possible before ITN goes live. If we find a way to add this
feature, we will implement it. However, we cannot guarantee at this moment that

> we will be able to do so.

Reviewer: if we're not sure if we can do this, do we need to mention it at all? (or another way, who is asking for this?)

Author: Good point! I had pulled this out of a medium article but was unfamiliar with the context-- I think removing altogether is best.
